It's time to talk about our third data structure and we're going to be talking about two types of linked
lists in the next coming videos singly and doubly linked lists what problem do we encounter with a race
well with static arrays.
We only had a certain amount of data or memory that can be allocated next to each other in memory but
then both dynamic arrays and static arrays can increase their memory.
Once it hits a certain limit and double up that memory in another location but that operation every
once in a while of doubling up the array in order to create more memory had a performance implication
and it cost us all of an Additionally arrays also had bad performance for any sort of operations like
insert and delete that had to shift indexes over especially when you inserted or deleted any word that
wasn't the end of the array.
And then came hash tables.
They were great.
We were pretty much store things wherever we wanted and memory and hash tables would just take care
of it for us and know where to place it in memory.
We didn't have to worry about some problems that came with the race.
Life was good but unfortunately they weren't really ordered.
So how can we solve this problem.
Linked Lists to the rescue.
So does this mean we all should just be using linked lists all the time in disregard arrays and hash
tables because linked lists are the best data structures.
No.
As always there are tradeoffs when it comes to data structures.
So in the next coming videos Let's learn more about them so we can get a clearer picture.
By the way remember this diagram that I showed you in the hash tables videos and I said that when we
had a collision.
One way to solve it was using something like this.
And we had no idea what this data structure was.
Well this John Smith to Sandra Dee and this little arrow pointing that's a linked list.
So let's get started and learn what link lists are.